Obesity is a serious health problem.
Over 600 million people around the world
are obese, have a BMI of 30 or greater.
obesity puts you at risk for a
multitude of health problems,
including diabetes, heart disease and even cancer.
Fortunately, obesity treatments have advanced
greatly in recent years.
Your physician may use a
step-wise approach to treatment,
that is determined by your BMI
and weight loss goals.
This approach might begin with the
simplest of treatments, lifestyle change.
The second tier integrates medications
into the treatment plan.
Endoscopic devices may be very effective
within the third tier of treatment.
Finally, a surgical solution may be necessary
to treat more severe cases of obesity.
These innovative treatment options
can be employed alone or in combination
to achieve a wide range of weight loss goals.
The groups of treatment options can vary
greatly in the resulting weight loss.
Your physician will tailor a plan
specifically for your needs.
Lifestyle change can include
tools such as diet modification,
exercise,
counseling,
learning appetite control,
or even mobile apps.
Some of the most recent advances in weight loss
have been in the development of medications.
New medications have proven to be
very effective in treating obesity.
Your physician may prescribe a medication alone,
or in tandem with other treatment options.
Endoscopic treatments such as
gastric balloons or sutured gastric reduction
have many advantages.
Endoscopic treatments offer the benefits of
dramatic weight loss,
without the risks and recovery time of surgery.
In more severe cases of obesity,
your physician may recommend surgery.
Surgery can alter the stomach volume
and the digestive path followed by food.
Surgery is the most physically invasive
of the treatment options,
but can also result in substantial weight loss.
Talk to your physician about obesity treatment options.
Newly developed treatments can greatly help
to improve your health and quality of life.